Y'all, I am still working on my vocals.
It's not quite there, but we're trying.
We're trying to get there.
Thank you for your patience with me.
And we just want to get started this morning.
Before I do, though, I want to, you'll notice that Williamson family is not with us this morning.
And Brandon is preaching over at Stiefel Town this morning for those fine folks.
And his family is with him today.
But I thanked him privately.
But I want to thank him also.
in front of you guys for being here last week.
Brandon did a wonderful job and I enjoyed listening to him.
Lisa and I decided last week that we would do virtual church as some people have become accustomed to doing.
And so we watched Cornerstone Baptist Church in Aiken.
Y'all ever heard of that?
It's a good little church and we're excited about what's going on there and Brandon did an excellent job.
He actually did it.
Joe, thank you, it's always a wonderful job.
All of you who were involved, Suzanne, I know Janelle has been filling out for all of us here with the Piana stuff.
Janelle was here last week and just a wonderful, wonderful job.
Thanks to all of you and hopefully we're going to have, I know we got a lot of folks that have been out with
I see a lot of people with clean excess today, just wiping, wiping, wiping.
And so that's just part of... Amen.
Well, in a lot of cases, those tears are coming through the nasal passages.
But anyway, however they come, it's fine.
But it's that time of year, so we just deal with this.
But God bless you all.
But it's good to see you, and we miss being with you when we're not here.
It's always a joy to get back.
But we're thankful for.
all that the Lord has done through everything that he does here.
So good morning to you.
Happy New Year.
It is good to see each and every one of you.
I just want to tell you as well also that I really appreciate the confidence that you all place in me as your pastor.
That means a lot to me and I'm grateful.
I don't take it for granted.
That's something that I just know that you guys pray for me every week when I'm looking through our prayer bowl.
I see many, many prayers.
You know, Lord bless Pastor Steven, Miss Lisa and all of these things that I see.
So it's just meaningful to me to see that thing and to see all that you do and just all the cards and the gifts and gift cards and
All of those kinds of things that many of you blessed us with over Christmas.
Thank you.
Some of those have already come to good use and enjoy going to some of those places.
But thank you so, so much for all that you do.
You're just so kind and we're grateful for all of you.
But before I want to say this too, this is the first Sunday of January, 2026.
That's hard to believe.
Lisa and I,
came here in August of 2017, but I became the pastor of the church.
You know, I was the associate pastor ahead of this, but became the pastor here the first Sunday of 2020.
So today actually marks the sixth anniversary of that day.
So it's good to still be here with you.
I was excited for a new opportunity then.
I'm excited for the new opportunities that the Lord
has afforded us even today.
So thank you so much for this and beginning a new year is energizing for me.
Is it for you?
You just enjoy doing that.
You kind of set aside all the old stuff, say, okay, I got a fresh start here.
You know, let's get going.
So that's kind of where I've been, you know, we can't do anything to affect the past now, can we?
So everything that we can do now through the Lord is to affect the future.
And I believe with the right clear vision, everybody say clear vision, the right clear vision,
we'll be able to contribute to the new year at Cornerstone.
First of all, by following the will of God, by doing what it is that he has all called us, called us all to do, he's given us all clear vision if we are interested in seeing it in his church here in 2026.
So my goal for 2026, I have many personal goals.
I have goals for the church here.
As we go along, we will be talking about those kinds of things.
But first of all, my goal is to pour
each and every ounce of spiritual energy that I can into you.
And that's what I want to do to try to help you, to help you grow spiritually.
I noticed on our bulletin that one of the things I think Brandon preached on one of my favorite passages of scripture last week was always pray continually.
You know, the passage that in one of the things that he suggested as a New Year's resolution is to obtain spiritual growth all year long and sharing
asked me if we could put that on the front of the bulletin.
I said, absolutely.
I think that's what we need to be doing.
But we want to strengthen our bond here as a family at Cornerstone.
I also want to pour myself into some more and to some better organized evangelism efforts through our church and through what God wants us to do.
This is part of the vision that I have.
I believe as a church family that we have arrived to a spiritual place and it's a continual journey.
But we are working through a journey spiritually to where we can make an impact and an effect for Jesus in our community.
And this is what I believe that I want to do.
And I've told you this many times, but it's true.
God wants to use cornerstone.
He wants to use all of us, which that is all of us.
We are cornerstone.
And there's reasons that he has, that he has all of us here at the same time for the same purpose.
And that is,
to magnify him.
And we're doing some of these things.
We're studying together.
We're fellowshiping together.
We commune together.
We're going to be doing that even today.
We worship him together.
We serve him together.
We're doing all of these things.
And it's a beautiful thing to watch and a beautiful thing to see.
We become a body of one.
We're worshiping an audience of one.
That's the way that I look at it.
Truly become family over these past couple of years.
I believe a couple of years ago, whenever it was that we did,
that family matters series.
You'll remember that.
That was a big deal for us more so than what, you know, might have just said, well, this is just another series of sermons or just a few messages that Pastor C is going to be preaching on.
But I believe that through that, we were able to bond even closer than what we've been doing.
So I'm just grateful for what we've been doing.
We've truly become family over these last couple of years.
God has put all of that together.
What you're seeing is his work.
This is what he does.
This is how he goes about doing things.
And you have all jumped on board with that vision, this family vision.
And I do truly believe, and just to play it on words, but I do believe that family matters.
I do.
I do believe that family clearly matters.
And we see that, you know, just within our fellowship right here.
So we should always continue the vision of rightly worshiping him, doing everything that we can to worship him rightly.
And all of the other things that we will be discussing will continue to fall into place.
So we got to remember this too.
And this is something that churches at times can be guilty of, but we have to be careful not to put God in a box.
He's.
Yeah.
Well, he can just do amazing things.
I mean, you know, things that you and I can't imagine.
And that's what I want to see through the ministry that we have here is just an unimagined division that God gives and that we are able to follow.
So, you know, here's what we can count on.
God never fails.
God never stops.
God never sleeps.
He's in time, on time, every time.
Not surprised.
He's always in our presence.
He will not fail.
And if we follow him, we will not fail as long as it's him that's doing it.
We got to remain unified as the body of Christ.
Notice I use the word remain.
I believe that we are unified as the body of Christ.
I believe that cornerstone has, has reached that.
I believe that we're there.
And I believe that we'll continue to do this.
We have to remain unified and glorify the Lord and all that we say and do.
We have to find ourselves available.
Everybody say available.
Have to find ourselves available to carry out this clear vision that we're going to be talking about today.
So turn with me if you would to the book of Proverbs this morning.
Our base text, we're going to be looking at several places, but our base text this morning is coming
from chapter 29, and it'll be verse 18.
If you kind of say, I got it, amen.
You know, I don't think that'll ever quit, you know?
Don't think it will.
That's one I forget to even ask now, but y'all are constantly right on the stand with me.
Let's read this together.
If you would, read it with me from up here, if you would, because I have like three different versions in my notes listed.
But I like the way the King James Version says this, because of a word that it used.
It says, where there is no...
Okay.
The people perish.
But he that keepeth the law happy is he.
Now, let me just read a couple of other places here.
The NIV says where there is no revelation.
Same thing.
It means vision.
People cast off restraint, but blessed is the one who needs wisdom's instruction.
Now, I like this one.
I look this up and it kind of tickles me a little bit, but it's from the Holman Bible, the HCSB.
If you happen to be reading that, this is what it says.
Without revelation, people run wild.
But one who listens will be happy.
So again, finally, this King James version is one we're gonna focus on today where there's no vision.
So we're gonna be talking about vision.
Let's pray together.
Lord, thank you again for this passage, for this scripture and the others that we'll be looking at again today.
So bless this Lord as we study, bless this Lord as we prepare ourselves for 2026.
And Father, as we move forward in the name of Jesus, we just ask your blessings on it.
And it's in his name we pray.
Amen.
You may be seated.
Thank you.
If I were to ask you today, what the definition of the word vision is, I imagine I would get pretty similar answers throughout the auditorium this morning.
Imagine everybody would have similar, they'd answer it something like this.
Vision is the ability to see beyond the surface of human potential.
Good definition, amen.
Vision is not what we are, but instead what we desire to become or could be.
Where we desire to go, vision might be defined as a picture of what is not yet, but is to come.
What we believe today, sitting right here right now is a reflection of our past vision.
And what we're doing today, what we are in life might be a direct result of our vision.
It also might be a direct result of our lack of vision.
Could be book of Hebrews gives us some insight on vision chapter 11 versus one and three have this to say as it relates to faith.
You know, this is the faith chapter.
Now, faith is confidence and what we hope for an assurance about what we do not see is verse one.
And in verse three says by faith, we understand that the universe was formed at God's command so that one is seen is not made out of what was visible.
This morning, you and I are talking about the vision of the church and maybe even some personal vision that we have within our own lives.
But for a second or two, let's imagine this.
Imagine the enormity of God's vision from the account of the Genesis.
You ever thought about that?
I mean, yes, we read it.
We talk about it.
You ever thought about the vision of God?
Now he saw this.
For 31 verses in Genesis chapter one, we see the very vision of God is as it came to life as he assembled everything.
He wanted to create the world that you and I live in.
Think of this with me now.
We won't get technical, but let me, let me just give you this.
Every blade of grass, every drop of water in the oceans, every piece of vegetation, the sun, the moon, the stars, every animal from the tiniest of insects to the largest creatures, Adam, Eve, all created things were created with purpose and intense vision from God.
Wow.
Makes you think doesn't it did me.
This was not by accident.
God did this with purpose.
I believe that he does everything with purpose.
God's vision was to populate the earth and to make a way to provide for his creation.
I like this.
Listen, the Genesis said God spoke it into existence.
Wow.
And through his clear vision, listen, all of that still exists today.
It's all still here.
God made it built to last.
Of course, we know that this was not the end of God's vision.
He also had a vision of the fall of man that didn't take him by surprise.
Somebody said a moment ago.
This little nugget was something that he was very well aware of.
through the sinfulness and the disobedience of Adam and Eve, eating from this forbidden tree, one that he told him not to eat from.
God's vision included then sending Jesus, his only son, to die on a cross to pay for the sins that he didn't commit.
But we do.
God's vision even continued more than that.
Whenever he ascended back into heaven, then this vision created the Holy spirit coming into the world to dwell among all of us.
The book of Acts chapter two, verses 33 to 35, tells us that the Holy Spirit lives in the hearts of every person who believes and is therefore is as close and as available as a breath.
I once read somewhere.
That said this, it said, vision without action is a daydream.
Went on to say action without vision.
is a nightmare.
It's so important to have clear vision in our lives, isn't it?
Clear vision helps us in many ways.
And I want to give you just a few this morning.
Think of this with me.
Clear vision gives us strength as a church family.
It gives us strength.
Listen, if we want to stay on track spiritually, then we must have clear spiritual vision.
Folks who struggle with visions sometimes fall backwards and they become discouraged.
Maybe you found yourself there.
A lack of vision in reality can actually cause weakness spiritually.
I find it sad, but there are some in our churches today that never really even realized the vision that God has placed in front of them.
Why would that be?
Each of us should answer that for ourselves.
If we're not having our clear vision in our lives, we would need to ask ourselves perhaps if maybe there is even a desire to see the vision that God has for all of us.
We desperately need to know what God has for us.
Don't we?
We need to know with this as much clarity as possible, God's vision for our lives.
We must desire to have spiritual strength by trusting in what God has and what God wants for all of us.
Clear vision gives us strength.
It gives us confidence.
It also gives us this.
It gives us great instruction.
By having clear vision and seeking the Lord, we will receive His instruction.
He will lead us.
He will guide us.
redirect us as we carry out His will, as we carry out His plan.
This will ultimately please God.
Don't we want to please God?
We should be in the business of pleasing God.
There's no greater accomplishment than pleasing our Lord and Savior.
By having His clear vision for ourselves, He instructs us.
Again, He guides us.
He molds us.
He shapes us into what He wants us
to be.
This is what we should want to be is what he wants us to be.
Every word we say, every step we take, every thought we think, every breath we breathe can be instructed by the Lord if we are seeking the vision that he has for us.
It gives us strength, the vision of God does.
It gives us instruction.
By seeking his vision, it also gives us great joy and great excitement.
There's such joy when we see the results of God's vision in our lives.
The angels in heaven celebrate when someone comes to know Jesus as their savior.
We should do that too.
We should be rejoicing over lost people becoming Christians and coming to know Jesus as their Lord and savior.
You see, a God given clear vision will bring glory to God and will fit us into his eternal purpose for our lives.
True vision from God.
Listen, it's never self seeking.
We're not doing it for our benefit.
Our vision should not be about who we are or what we want.
Our vision should also be about who he is and what he wants for us.
A true vision from God doesn't praise us.
It only praises him and it glorifies the name of Jesus.
Any other type of vision, probably not from God.
If it isn't God's vision, then that vision will fail.
You might be here today and you're not completely sure
If you have this clear vision from God that we so desperately need, could be us.
So how do I go about getting the vision?
You know, sometimes God will give us what we need in a bunch of different ways when he's not in a box.
He has many paths that he can take unlimited.
Perhaps we're desperate for something this morning.
Perhaps we know that we need this strength.
We know that we need this instruction so that we can have this joy and excitement that comes along with being in the will of God.
Sometimes God will show us, show us his vision when we find ourselves in that desperate situation.
We have nowhere to turn but to him.
We're desperate for a change in our life that can cause us great
joy and excitement.
Jesus was giving a sermon on the mound and Matthew recorded what we know as the Beatitudes.
You know that it says, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst in Matthew chapter five verse six.
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness for they will be filled.
It says, I believe that if we ask for God's vision, he will reveal it when he is ready to reveal it.
Sometimes we may need to wait on God to give us his vision.
Needs to be in his timing anyway.
We don't ever want to be ahead of him.
There's a verse in the Old Testament book in Habakkuk that tells us this, chapter two, verse three says, for the revelation or the vision waits, awaits an appointed time.
It speaks of the end and will not prove false.
goes on to say, though it linger, wait for it.
It will certainly come and not delay.
We shouldn't move ahead of God in our own strength, but we should truly be relying on him.
It's a church, something that we must always be on the lookout for is how Satan uses what we will call vision hindrances.
Anybody ever been hindered by
Satan on a vision that maybe you had perhaps we're doing the best that we can do to see the clear vision that God has for us.
But then something happens that hinders us from fulfilling that vision.
Perhaps you've been there.
I believe that there are several of these and give you just a couple.
One of the biggest ones that I can think of and many churches have this hindrance is the hindrance of complacency.
Things are going good.
We're happy with the way things are, happy with what we are, happy with what we have.
Spirit is good.
Fellowship is good.
All of a sudden we, we let off the gas a little bit, complacent.
Just let off the gas a little.
What I mean by that as well, you know, we were here on Sunday morning, but maybe we're not quite as faithful on Sunday night.
Maybe it's been a while since we've been here on a Wednesday night.
Once you get accustomed to missing those kinds of things, it doesn't take long before it's just as easy to miss a Sunday morning.
Complacent.
Who knows, we might even forget the tithe.
We grow complacent at all as well and inadvertently listen inadvertently.
We take ourselves out of that clear vision that God has for us because of complacency.
It's very easy to find ourselves becoming that way.
We get used to routine.
I do.
I'm a routine guy.
We get used to that.
We like the way things are.
We might not be interested in making any types of changes.
Evangelism gets put on the back burner.
We might get satisfied with the status quo.
What we must realize is this.
All of us, every single one of us within the sound of my voice and beyond are imported.
We are an important piece to what God has for all of us.
We are all parts of this ministry that God has given us that we call cornerstone Baptist church.
We're all part of it.
A big part of it.
And being part of this ministry means something.
It means that you are physically and spiritually part of God's vision here.
That's who we are.
You, my friends, or family and family matters.
We matter.
We must allow God's vision to work through us and not become complacent through his work here.
There's so much that we need to be doing spiritually here so much.
And it takes all of us carrying our parts of this vision.
Honestly,
We don't have the luxury of not seeking God's vision.
We must seek him.
We don't have the luxury Christian of becoming complacent with God's work.
We must give him our best.
We must give him our first fruits and wholeheartedly seek his vision for our lives.
Another vision hindrance that the Satan that Satan likes to use is one of us getting in our own way.
You ever gotten in your own way?
This might be hard to understand, but we can have our vision hindered by way of our own flesh.
We can sometimes become impatient.
Sometimes we can trip our own selves up by believing that our way is much better than God's way.
We get ahead of him.
In other words, church, what happens sometimes is we make it more about what we want and less about what he wants.
I've seen this many times through the years being impatient.
There could be times that we think we have all the answers when in reality we know very little.
In every situation, we must acknowledge God for who He is.
We must trust His Word when He says that He will supply our vision.
Another vision hindrance is one of dealing with critics.
Anybody have any critics?
If you're a Christian, you do.
Change chapter three, verses five and six have this to say,
Likewise, the tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts.
Consider what a great forest is to be set on fire by a small spark.
The tongue is also a fire, a world of evil among the parts of the body.
It corrupts the whole body, says the whole course of one's life on fire, and is itself set on fire by hell.
You see, we must beware, and I'll put it this way,
We must be aware of an evil report.
Believe it or not, there are people in our world today that are waiting on who we are as Christians to make mistakes.
They want to spread evil reports.
These folks are spreading evil reports on you because they want to insist on your failure.
Where does this type thinking comes from?
It comes from the devil.
He distorts their thought processes.
He causes them to try to distract you from the vision that God has for you.
The devil will use people around you to diminish what is happening through the church.
He will use those people to cause you to be confused about the clear vision that God has set before you.
Did you know that the devil does not want you to embrace what God has for you?
He doesn't want that.
It threatens the grip that he has on a sinful world if you were focused on God.
So he does everything that he can.
He uses every person that he can to hinder your vision.
Listen, church, we can't allow any of these vision hindrances to take us out of what it is that God has given us to do.
We can't become complacent.
We can't get in our own way.
Look, it's not about us.
It's all about him.
It has to be.
We can't allow folks who are critical of us to stand in the way of what God wants us to do through us.
We have to give ourselves totally to the vision that God has set before us.
He set one before us individually.
He set one before us as a church and
I'll be quick, but, but there are six things that I want you to get from this that I believe that we can do to implement God's vision in our lives.
Let me give you these quick.
First of all, as our own commitment, we must be committed to the cause of Jesus Christ and his church.
Now I'm talking about really committed here, not flashing the pan.
Not only a commitment when it's beneficial for us, not only a commitment whenever we feel like it, but a true commitment to seeking God's vision and not our own vision.
Second thing is compassion.
Jesus always ministered with great compassion, didn't he?
We have to realize that we live in a flawed world.
We live in a world that's full of sinners, imperfect people.
We must be willing to minister to them with great compassion, or we might even be able to lose our ability to witness to them at all.
Another way to implement our vision is being contributors.
All of you are contributors to the ministry of Jesus Christ here.
All of us are.
I'm not talking only about giving tithes and offerings.
We certainly is part of God's vision for you.
But I'm also talking about contributing to the kingdom of God by realizing your own vision and sharing it with everyone else.
The fourth thing is commonality.
One voice, one sound, one purpose.
Bringing Aiken, South Carolina to God and bringing God to Aiken, South Carolina.
That's the purpose.
Remaining unified in the cause of Christ.
in a lost and a dying world.
And we can do this if we all realize our own vision that God has for us.
And if we share it together in common with our peace of the world that he has blessed us with.
The fifth thing is that we must have great courage.
Look, you know this, but it takes great courage to realize and to share
division that God has given us.
The Bible tells us to be strong and courageous, doesn't it?
We must have the courage to share Jesus and God's vision throughout our community.
And the last thing is we must be great communicators.
We must communicate with the church in the world again, one voice, one sound, one purpose, communicating evangelistically with our community.
And I like what the Proverbs tells us in chapter four versus 25 to 27.
Here's what it says, let your eyes look straight ahead.
Fix your gaze directly before you.
Give careful thought to the past for your feet.
Be steadfast in all your ways.
Do not turn to the right or the left.
Keep your foot from evil.
My prayer for you today is that you're truly seeking God's vision for your life.
As humans, as Christians in this world, we spend so much time on focusing on what we think is best.
We tend to make life more about us and less about Jesus.
Then we wonder why sometimes the things turn out the way that they do.
Here's what I would want you to know today.
Listen, there's no better way
Then God's way.
God's way is the way his vision, his strength, his love is all perfect.
And you and I have access to it.
If we will only but seek him.
Let me close with this verse this morning from the gospel of Matthew chapter six, verse 33 is one that you're very familiar with.
And it says this, the seek first is kingdom.
and His righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well.
So friends, are you exploring God's vision for yourself?
Are you exploring God's vision for His church?
I pray that today that you are.
If you aren't, there's time.
Maybe you don't understand what your piece of the pie is or your part of the vision is.
Be happy to pray with you about that and God will lead you and guide you, show you what it is that he would have for you to do.
Don't miss an opportunity to serve the Lord.
Don't miss an opportunity to implement the vision.
that he has placed before you.
I believe that 2026 can be a banner year for Cornerstone.
Really do.
I just see the spirit of God working in our church.
And this sermon today was to encourage you to live for Jesus and to do the things that he would have you do.
believe that our church is sitting on the edge of doing great, great things for Jesus.
God loves us all.
And he wants us to be part of what he has planned here.
Big, small and different, whatever it is, he wants us to be part of what he's called us to do.
So will you do that?
Are you willing to
Accept the vision that he has for you to look forward accepted and then use it.
I pray that you are.
If you're here today without Jesus and you don't know him as your Lord and Savior, honestly friend, you don't know anything about God's vision.
Becoming a Christian,
Accepting the Lord Jesus as your Savior.
The Holy Spirit will engulf you and dwell in you and show you the vision of how you can affect the kingdom.
Thank you all so much for being here.
It is a joy to be back in the Lord's house to be able to minister to you and to be able to just fellowship with you.
Don't forget, we do have some food to eat on your way out today.
The tables are set up.
If you want to sit and eat, if you can, you can take some with you, however you want to do that.
But don't miss out on that.
We need to make sure we get that stuff eaten, so if you would stick around and do that.
Again, no choir practice.
We'll get back on that again next week.
It's the plan.
But the chosen will be this afternoon at 6.30.
So don't miss out.
Be glad to have you all.